disk usage command :  du <path>
whats the difference between less and cat  ? 
c compiler is very important because almost all the programs are written in c 
the language kernel is written in c 
the c program compiler itself is written in c 
this is a chicken egg problem. 
cc -v gives you the version information 

cc -E <file name> 
gives you the first stage of the c compilation process. 
first stage is called  : preprocessing
#define is replaced (macro expansion) 
#include is included 

cc -S <file name> , we see a file a.s , gives second phase of compilation 
preprocessed code ---> assembly code and not machine code 
this phase is called compilation proper


cc -c <file name> gives .o extension 
they are called object file 
contains machine code 
we will not be able to execute the machine code file because no execute permission. 
cannot execute even if we give it the executable permission. 
because machine code file is incomplete because the file is not linked with the standard c library code. this process is called linking. 
this phase till now is called assembling 

the last phase is called linking 

cc <old name > -o <newname> means new output is stored in the new name and not the oldname.out format 

complexity of the 4 stages 

stage 3 
assembly code ---> ,machine code 
looking up each the assembly code in the instruction set

stage 2 is most complex. 

because syntactical structure is very complex. 
and all the error have to be weeded out 
 
GCC is an optimising compiler : 

because it takes in c source code and generates assembply language code which run fastest on the machine. 
the same programme can be used to generate different assembly programme 

look up bit operations.pdf again 

multiplication by mul add and even left shift 

GCC is a retargetable compiler 

it takes in .c code and converts it to x86-64 asm code 
and also to any new kind of architecture without any huge work. this process is called retargeting 

cc -g used to debug 
look gdb video 




